# Default Points
- 👋 Hi, I’m Joshua Bilsland. I studied computer science and IT for GCSEs and for A-levels.
- 👀 I’m interested in programming, cyber security and anything else computer related.
- 🌱 I’m currently learning programming with Python and am planning to learn a new language (likely C#)
- 💞️ I’m looking to collaborate on Python projects, find work/apprenticeship as well as learn new programming languages and techniques.
- 📫 How to reach me joshua.bilsland12@gmail.com

# Introduction & Purpose
The purpose of this file is to aid as a sort of guide to my GitHub profile and my journey learning about computer science and programming. As stated above (and in more detail in the section below), I hope to get a software development apprenticeship and plan to use my profile as my main way to show what I know, what I can do, what I have learnt, etc. This file will have sections talking about this as well as containing a chronological overview of all my projects, categorised into the sections: GCSEs (repos created during my GCSEs), A-Levels (repos created during my A-Levels), Post A-Levels (repos created after I finished A-Levels and now that I am out of school). Hopefully, this will create a structure that will allow potential employers to look through and see how I have improved over time and what I have been doing since I have finished school.

# Path, Goals & Career Aims
I will try to keep this section short, as I will go into more detail in the introductory sections to the different categories my repos will be sorted into. With that said, for many years I was interested in engineering, mechanics, and cars. I had originally wanted to be a car mechanic, but I did not really enjoy engineering at GCSEs and found myself enjoying computer science and programming much more (and feeling I was better at it). I was initially interested in cyber security and pen testing. I spent a few years, from GCSEs to A-Levels, learning about these topics (completing things like the 'Portswigger Web Security Academy'). I did enjoy learning about this; however, particularly at A-Level, I did not have the time to fully commit to it due to the amount of school work I had. At the same time as this, in my lessons I was learning much more advanced programming concepts than what I had learned at GCSE, such as OOP, DSA, recursion, Big O, etc. After this, I found myself enjoying programming more than the cyber security stuff I was doing in my spare time. My A-Level coursework for computer science allowed me to create a project of my choosing. I decided to create a GUI draughts game with an AI to play against (https://github.com/JoshuaBilsland/Draughts-with-AI). Completing a large project like this made up my mind, and I decided that I wanted to focus on programming and become a software developer. I have now finished A-Levels, and I am currently working full-time as a production operative. I wanted to do at least a year of work to get some savings, learn to drive, learn more about programming/CS, etc. My next step after this is to hopefully get a software development apprenticeship. When I am not working, I am learning more and completing projects to try and help improve my chances of getting an apprenticeship when the time comes that I start applying for one.

# Repos Categorised
## GCSE
### Overview
This section contains my repos that were created during my GCSE years. As mentioned previously in the [Path, Goals & Career Aims](#path-goals--career-aims) section, I was originally interested in mechanics and engineering but ended up finding computer science much more enjoyable. My GCSEs years were during COVID and lockdown time, which, while disrupting my GCSEs, did help me in other ways. Most importantly, it gave me lots of time to spend learning about cyber security and pen testing. During the lockdown, I setup a Linux virtual machine and began learning more about using the command line and working my way through things like the 'Portswigger Web Security Academy'. I continued learning about cyber security and pen testing into my first year of A-Levels. I also completed my first major project as part of my GCSE coursework (https://github.com/JoshuaBilsland/Card_Game), which I completed during lockdown. By the time I returned to school after lockdown, I had decided to move my focus away from engineering and to computer science and IT instead. In doing this, I doubled my computer science grade from 4s and 5s to 8s and 9s, getting an 8 as my final grade.
### Repos
- https://github.com/JoshuaBilsland/About-Me
- https://github.com/JoshuaBilsland/Card_Game
- https://github.com/JoshuaBilsland/Text_To_Speech
- https://github.com/JoshuaBilsland/PortswiggerAcademyNotes

## A-Levels
### Overview
Going into A-Levels, I continued learning about cyber security and pen testing. I also got a Raspberry Pi 4 for my birthday, which I used to run Linux distributions rather than a virtual machine. Although I was enjoying it, I was struggling to find the time to dedicate to it due to the workload of A-Levels. I was also learning more advanced programming in my computer science lessons and found that now I was learning more about programming, it was much more fun than the stuff I had been doing and a more realistic career for me to aim for. While I was doing my coursework project (https://github.com/JoshuaBilsland/Draughts-with-AI), I decided to focus on software development as my focus and the career I wanted to aim for. My next step was to work out which type of software development I wanted to do. Since I had been learning about pen testing web applications, I started trying out web development. I started 'The Odin Project' and I enjoyed it to begin with, but I never really found HTML and CSS that interesting and preferred actual programming. I had tried game development through my coursework project by making a GUI draughts game with an AI opponent and enjoyed that a lot, but game development felt more like something I would like to do as a hobby, and I had not heard great things about it as a career (although I wouldn't say no), so I settled on focusing on desktop application development.
### Repos
- https://github.com/JoshuaBilsland/Codewars
- https://github.com/JoshuaBilsland/TheOdinProject
- https://github.com/JoshuaBilsland/odin-recipes
- https://github.com/JoshuaBilsland/css-exercises
- https://github.com/JoshuaBilsland/Draughts-with-AI
- https://github.com/JoshuaBilsland/password-generator